Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
Previously on House Of David...
I don't understand
why your father trusts him.
Doeg?
No. we don't trust him. but he is useful.
I'm worried.
I wish I could explain.
I only ever asked you for one thing.
to not embarrass me.
I know about the anointing.
When you sit on your throne.
remember who protected you.
Give David what he wants.
Let him marry Mychal.
But only after he completes
one last mission.
One he will not survive.
Did you tell David he could marry me?
I did.
He is first proving his worth.
Something's not right here.
It's a trap!
Burn them alive.
Giant slayer! Your king betrayed you!
Why do you fight for him?
My king. The Philistine Forge is no more.
I will have Mychal's hand in marriage.
It will be done.
I want you out of this house!
You are banished!
"He will love you
and bless you and increase your numbers."
He will bless the fruit of your womb.
the crops of your land.
the calves of your herds
and the lambs of your flocks.
In the land he swore
to your ancestors to give you.
Listen to my words.
When there is a prophet among you.
I. the Lord. will reveal myself
to them in visions.
I will speak to them in dreams.
And in the towns of Judah
and the streets which are deserted.
there will be heard once more
the sounds of joy. gladness.
-A donkey could do it in one day.
-Voices of the bride and the bridegroom.
Take water for you and the horse. Go.
Here.
What is it?
An invitation.
The Giant Slayer will wed the princess.
It is Mychal.
A new dawn in Israel.
The silos! They're burning!
Hurry. quick!
Fire! Fire!
Fetch water! Hurry!
Leave the weapons!
Take him to the cart.
Careful.
We are fortunate the fires did not spread.
Fortunate? All five grain silos
filled just a few days ago.
Our entire winter stock.
More over there.
Philistines.
We killed their giant.
but apparently not their spirit.
Am I not dealing with enough?
They're increasing their assaults.
Forging better weapons.
As are we.
This is Achish.
He is desperate for revenge.
Without that grain. we could
fall into famine before the spring.
I suggest we tax the other tribes.
Demand a ration of their supplies.
We can start with Judah.
I will not beg at anyone's feet.
More weakness.
Hunger is the greater threat.
Starving people will do anything.
What about Edom?
The alliance of peace
between us and Edom is fragile.
Their king is a bitter and vindictive man.
We have not spoken in 20 years.
I fear stirring a hornet's nest.
I will negotiate with them.
And how do you intend to negotiate
without losing your head?
Father. this...
This is one situation
where my reckless and indulgent past
may benefit us.
Let's just say I once spent
a memorable night in Edom
with the king's closest adviser.
We are friends... of a sort.
Let me talk to him.
Go and try.
I will not fail you.
A moment with my father. Abner.
Do not take up
the cause of your mother with me.
No. I must.
You cannot punish her forever.
A queen deserves respect.
And what does a king deserve? Betrayal?
How exactly has she betrayed you?
David was never meant to return
from that mission. was he?
The Philistines were waiting.
This was your mother's doing!
Perhaps now you understand my actions.
David has proven himself.
He is now worthy of this family.
Ah. sometimes I wonder
if this family is worthy of him.
Mirab?
What's happening to our family?
What family?
What is this one?
The digging of wells in the north.
Can they not dig wells themselves?
With your money. they can.
What bothers you?
Do you fear to speak to your king?
No. no.
Yet I long to speak to my friend.
I deeply believe in you. Saul.
You know this.
I... I've built my life on that belief.
Continue.
I'm concerned.
-The silos. Our enemies cannot...
-No. no. no. no. no.
Not the silos. Nor our enemies.
No one can bring down the House of Saul...
but Saul himself.
What good is a king
who gains the whole world.
yet loses himself in the pursuit?
Casting away Ahinoam.
-Bringing in a... a servant into your bed.
-Now she is my concubine.
This is a king's right.
Not the king of Israel.
Not you.
I beg of you. Saul.
Remember the man you were.
I think you've won.
Would you like some good news?
What kind of good news?
No!
Mm-hmm.
What?
Are you certain?
I'm a healer. Jonathan. and a woman.
so. yes. I am certain.
Oh. goodness. Sorry. Ah.
It's all right. I won't break.
Does anyone else know?
You will want for nothing.
And I will teach him how to ride horses.
-and... and how to pick vegetables.
-And if she's a girl?
Then I will do the same.
We will live a peaceful and quiet life
in your village.
away from war and conflict.
Sounds like quite the dream.
Is it possible?
Once the crown is on David's head. yes.
I only need to ensure a peaceful path.
Make sure my family is safe.
In truth. I won't miss this place.
Then I ask only this.
Hold your secrets. hmm?
Until our child is born and...
and our lives are free and safe.
Promise me.
I promise.
"This bath is a mikvah.
A ritual immersion before marriage
to honor this new beginning."
"It's filled
with living water from the earth."
"Blessed are you. Eternal God.
ruler of the universe.
who sanctifies us through mitzvot."
You are to immerse yourself
three times completely.
Blessed is the Eternal.
God of all creation.
who blessed me with life
-and sustained me...
-And sustained me.
and allowed me to reach this moment.
I will betroth you to me
with righteousness and with justice.
with goodness and compassion.
I will betroth you to me forever.
And we will come to know Adonai.
Mychal.
David. you can't see me like this.
I'm... I'm a mess.
I'm sorry about your mother.
I know what it's like
to see your family fractured.
I know.
But. listen.
we don't have to be our parents.
We can start new.
-Hmm.
-We will build our own future.
our own family.
One without the lies.
betrayal and bloodshed. hmm?
That sounds ambitious.
It does sound ambitious.
David.
I need to know that I have all of you.
Mmm?
Mm-hmm.
This is meant to take
my mind off of the wedding?
Do you want to go back
to sulking in the palace?
Yes. At least there. there is wine.
And when we're finished here. there
will be fresh meat for the wedding feast.
Have you done this with my brother?
Mmm. Eshbaal doesn't need my help.
You have truly come to love him.
haven't you?
Love?
He intrigues me. I intrigue him.
and that is all that is required.
I never thought any man could tame you.
I'll never be tamed.
Ready your bow.
-Are you ready?
-Mmm.
Go.
I hit it.
Come on. It's not over yet. Come on.
Right.
-What do we do?
-Hold it down.
Lie here. on its side.
All right.
I have to cut its throat.
so look away if you must.
Thank you for this gift.
And let the blood return unto the earth
and to you. Adonai.
Mirab. it was a good kill.
Death is never easy.
but sacrifice brings new life.
To accept this is how we move forward.
To bless the suffering.
Hmm?
Wait here.
Meet me back at the palace.
-What? Dinah!
-I need to take care of something.
My king.
Jesse. son of Obed. father of David.
I owe you a great debt. Jesse.
Such a strong and determined son
you have given me.
I have given nothing.
David chose this for himself.
Was he always this headstrong?
Yes. A legacy from his mother.
Tell me. Jesse. have we met before?
I served in your army
at the battle of Jabesh.
I was also at Gilgal
when Samuel crowned you king.
Samuel.
Do you know him?
I revere him.
Many revere him.
I do not know him.
Could you have imagined that one day
your house would join with mine?
It is the last thing
I would have imagined.
It is not much of a mohar.
but it is all that I have.
Oh. Jesse. please.
it is I who should be gifting you.
Abner.
I do not want anything.
All men want something.
I have never been
indebted to the throne. I...
I have no wish to change that.
You have an unusual way
of accepting gratitude.
Gratitude?
I have lost a son in your service.
Now I am losing another...
to a future that
I never would've chosen for him.
This displeases you?
Back in the hills of Bethlehem.
my... my home...
I will miss my sons.
I will miss them.
Come. Father.
This is a celebration. Mark it as one.
Yes.
Come.
Red. I want all the pillows red.
Everything must be ready
before our guests arrive.
Go help in the garden.
Very impressive.
I'm looking for my father.
Seems you're the one to ask.
I think you'll find him on his throne.
Edom will send
20 wagons of grain before Yom Teruah.
Twenty more by Sukkot.
That and a small tithe from the tribes
should see us through the winter.
I wouldn't have thought it possible.
All things are possible. Father.
Come.
The king of Edom would not offer this
if there was not something in it for him.
Of course. the details I leave to you.
But the king intends
to travel here shortly to discuss.
Mm-hmm.
And you were right. He is bitter.
But he is also wise enough to recognize
that we are much more powerful.
And he needs new alliances.
He seemed eager to move on
from old grievances.
I have underestimated you. my son.
You don't think it's...
it's a bit... ...heavy?
No. I think it's nice.
May I have a moment with my sister?
Of course.
What do you want?
How long have we talked about this day?
We dreamed about it with Mother for years.
I... I couldn't miss it.
And I cannot let you wear
that monstrosity.
Mychali. it's awful.
I-I knew it.
I knew it wasn't right.
Go with gold.
You always wear gold.
There.
It's better?
It's better.
Mother should be here.
She should.
But since she is not. I will be.
There has been enough suffering
in this family lately.
And so she would probably
want you to have this.
That you know that she is always with you.
It's... It's beautiful.
Thank you.
Now. what are we going to do
about that face?
Where have you been?
A conversation for later.
-Is that blood on your hands?
-Yes. I was hunting. I'm sorry.
Like I said. we'll talk later.
Hmm. Look. David is coming.
Look at you. David.
The Princess. Avva. The Princess. look.
My king...
I have come into your house
that you may give me
your daughter. Mychal. as my wife.
And may the lord make this woman
like Rachel and Leah.
who together built
the family of our nation.
May we be established in Gibeah.
and famous in Bethlehem...
...and all the tributes of Israel.
And may our children profess
their loyalty to this kingdom
and their love to Adonai for all eternity.
To my beautiful daughter. Mychal.
and my new son.
the Giant Slayer!
You will be my wife
for all the time God affords us together.
Long may it be.
I love you. David.
I love you. Mychal.
Princess Mychal. David.
It is a beautiful ceremony.
-It's a beautiful gift. Thank you.
-Thank you.
What will we do with all of this?
I don't know. We've received
five of the same pot.
Thank you.
-I'll be right back.
-Sure.
Father.
why must you leave so early?
I have proudly witnessed
your marriage. Son.
Now I must return to our flocks.
Thank you for coming all this way.
David.
Seems your mother was right.
King David.
Two words I never imagined together.
But how will you rule. hmm?
How will you be different?
I think we both know
how history will remember Saul.
How will it remember you?
I will pray for you. Son.
God above all. yes?
Of course.
I love you. Son.
I love you. Father.
Do not let this place corrupt you. David.
Okay. Father. let's go.
I've been given permission
to take you home.
-No. I don't need a guide.
-Stop complaining. Father.
Just enjoy the company. huh?
-David.
-Avva.
Let us go.
Bye. Son.
Let's go. baby.
David.
You have exalted the tribe of Judah.
For this. I bless you.
What is it you want. Adriel?
Come now.
I'm here to celebrate your rise
and remind you
who cleared the path along the way.
God clears my path.
Yes. but God gives you friends as well.
does He not?
And if you are to achieve your ambitions.
you will need them. huh?
Hmm.
I know what you did.
My family grieved Tobiah and his kin.
They were innocent.
And do you know who put
the blade to his heart and his family?
Even the baby?
Huh?
Your own brother. Eliab.
So tell me. is he innocent? Are you?
Oh. David.
There is much you do not know.
my little shepherd boy.
And nothing... nothing escapes my ears.
And you expect me to reward you for this?
When you have taken the throne. yes.
Or one word from me to Saul.
and the next blood on the ground
will be yours.
And what do you expect
happens then. huh?
When the king finds out you lied
about Samuel's anointed. huh?
Speak the truth. and they will be
the last words to ever leave your mouth.
I owe you nothing.
Eliab. I need to talk to you.
I know what you did.
What you were made to do.
Well. then. you also know that
there is nothing for us to talk about.
You enjoy your wedding day. brother.
Enjoy. Lovely to speak to you.
Eshbaal.
Congratulations
on your sister's special day.
Thank you. Adriel.
Although. let's be honest.
this union cannot be helpful to you. huh?
Oh. and why is that?
Well. David is just one more obstacle
between you and the throne.
Oh. I was never destined for the throne.
You're speaking to the wrong brother.
Am I? Come. Eshbaal.
I know how a man like you thinks.
I see you for who you are.
What do you see?
Ambition. Fierceness.
All the makings of a king.
If only there was someone
who could help clear those obstacles. huh?
I no longer drink wine.
Trust me. you'll want to drink
when you hear this.
I have been holding a secret. The truth.
David is not at all who he says he is.
Come.
Father. I need to tell you a story
about an outcast from a nearby tribe.
A bastard in his family.
A shame to his people.
A curse to his father's name.
This outcast joined your household.
comforted you with his music.
married your daughter.
and. yet. he never told you the truth.
That the Prophet Samuel
journeyed to his home.
which is why his curse was passed to you.
All along. he was
the cause of the very torment
from which he was meant to comfort you.
We have been deceived.
You killed the wrong son of Judah.
Think of it. Father. He slayed the giant.
God has favored him in battle
time after time. as he once favored you.
The traitor you seek
has been here in your house
the whole time.
Right in front of you.
The anointed one...
is David.
Dinah. What's so important that
you wanted to talk to me about?
-Eshbaal.
-What is it?
We don't know
who in the palace we can trust.
What do you mean?
Today in the woods. I witnessed
a man with a patch over one eye.
It was the same man who killed my father.
How can you be sure?
Because I followed him.
What?
Eshbaal. he was meeting with Doeg.
I told you
I had a bad feeling about that man.
Oh.
What if the attack on our convoy
wasn't just bandits?
What if it was planned?
-I mean. someone here in the palace is...
-Dinah. Dinah. a conspiracy? Who?
-We have to go to the king now.
-No. No. no. no.
My father has been... off-balance lately.
The smallest thing could set him off.
And he'd never believe that
about Doeg. Not without proof.
I have proof.
Here. Read it.
The silos weren't burned
by the Philistines.
and more attacks are planned.
You must...
You must leave this with me.
Speak of it to no one.
Eshbaal. they murdered my father.
Dinah... Stop.
Why?
No. I won't let this rest. I can't.
What?
What is it?
Huh?
-I didn't expect this.
-What?
To fall in love with you.
Eshbaal.
-I'm sorry.
-For what?
No. No. Not a sound.
Sister. you cannot make a sound.
Do you understand?
You killed her.
It's not as simple as that.
There are things you don't know.
Eshbaal...
...you murdered your wife.
You murdered Dinah.
Calm down. I need you to compose yourself.
Eshbaal!
I don't know who you are!
I don't know anything!
I need to find Mother.
-I need to go. I need to leave.
-Stop. stop!
Listen to me for a moment.
Remember you asked me
what happened while I was gone?
I will tell you.
Mirab. my life ended.
The life that I knew ended.
And from the wreckage
of that weak. pitiful boy...
I emerged with a purpose.
and I will do whatever I must
to see it through.
The silos.
You burned down the grain silos.
Yes.
You had Mother crown you.
You tore her and Father apart.
You pushed me to marry David.
Why?
Eshbaal. to what end?
A better future. for all of us.
You've lost your mind.
-You've lost your mind.
-No. No.
I have finally found it.
Father's weak and corrupt. You've seen it.
-You're hurting me. Esh...
-We all have.
His kingdom is rotting under him.
and if we do not act...
If I do not act...
we will lose everything.
You saw what happened to Mother.
I do not want that for you. Or for Mychal.
Don't you touch her.
I'm going to build something new.
Something so much better.
But...
no one can know what you saw today.
Do you understand?
Are you threatening me?
Mirab...
Dinah stumbled into something
bigger than her.
I had no choice.
But you are my sister.
the other half of my soul.
You were the only one
who mourned my banishment.
My one true ally in this family.
And I need you now more than ever...
by my side.
It is the only way.
Yes?
My wife.
My love.
How could this happen?
She was found by a guard.
He heard a scream
near the foot of the western gates.
I'm so sorry. Eshbaal.
This could not have been an accident.
This is our enemy striking against us.
What reason could anyone
possibly have to kill Dinah?
A threat?
If a princess could be killed
within the castle walls...
And they simply walked past the guards?
Killed her unseen?
No.
Someone in this palace is responsible.
No one is responsible.
Dinah had been confiding in me.
She pretended to be strong.
but the death of her father
affected her more than we knew.
She often spoke about ending her own life.
She never told me this.
She was afraid that
you would not love her in her weakness.
But nobody could.
I am so sorry. brother.
More than you could ever know.
My love.
Apologies. my prince.
The king calls for you.
He needs to hear you play.
Now? Is he unwell?
I'm sure he'll be fine.
Abner. what troubles him?
There are many things
that trouble the king.
I'm sure seeing you will remedy them.
It is you. isn't it?
My king?
I loved you.
Trusted you...
and you still betrayed me.
My king. I am loyal to you.
I always have been.
Hmm. Loyal.
Are you?
No more deception.
Speak the truth.
Did Samuel choose you?
-My king. please just sit down...
-Did he choose you?
Did he?
-Did Samuel choose you?
-No.
No.
God chose me.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-